Now, welcome to the second lesson project.
Now, the traffic simulation and at this point works in a basic way in
the sense that vehicles are driving along streets from intersection to intersection.
Once they reach an intersection,
they simply drive through it without checking for
other vehicles that might already have been within the intersection.
This cannot be called safe driving and we will set out to improve that.
The major theme of this lesson has been passing data in between threads.
Accordingly, we will use the concepts you have learned so
far to build a communication infrastructure that will
prevent vehicles from entering intersection when there is
already another vehicle inside the intersection and crossing it.
Let's take a closer look.
In the previous lesson project,
we have enabled a basic version of the concurrent traffic simulation.
You have vehicles traveling along streets,
you have them crossing an intersection,
and once they're in an intersection they are simply driving along,
changing direction, oblivious of the fact whether
there is another vehicle and they get in the intersection currently or not.
This is going to change now.
In this lesson project,
we're going to use promises and futures to
enable communication between vehicles and intersections.
Now, let's take a look.
In the traffic simulation we have so far,
we want to enable vehicles to now wait
at an intersection until it is their turn to drive on.
The communication between vehicles and
intersections should work through a one-time communication channels.
So the basic idea is once a vehicle drives up towards an intersection,
it hands out a, let's say promise,
to receive the info in due time when
all the other vehicles that are currently queuing at
the intersection process and have driven off,
to receive a feedback using the future,
to proceed on their own into the intersection and drive along.
So the promise future concept was going to be
the communication channel and it's going to work only a single time
because the vehicle is only queuing a single time at
the intersection and when it's going to come back some time in the future maybe,
it's going to establish a new one-time communication channels.
So if we have five vehicles queuing at the intersection currently,
we have five channels all from five vehicles to this single intersection in the middle.
Your task is to use promises and
futures to set up this communication channel between vehicles and
the intersections and to also implement
a proper weighting mechanism to avoid having multiple vehicles enter into intersection.
So that's basically the most important thing here.
We want to make sure that at one point and time,
only a single vehicle is within the intersection.
Now this is going to be the structure of
the code once you're done with the implementation.
Don't be afraid, you don't have to implement everything.
We will give you an almost ready implementation of the new version.
When you compare this block of code here,
this huge collection of different tasks to the previous lesson project,
and it's fairly easy to see what is new.
So old blocks which have existed before are
just white and new blocks which have been added to this Lesson 2 project,
they have a blue background.
Hidden within those blue boxes are your various tasks which you need
to do in order to enable the weighting of the vehicles at an intersection.
But let's take a look and start at the front.
So what's new in main on the left side is we
have a block here which is called simulate intersections.
Until now, the only thing we did was
simulated vehicles and the green arrow, if you recall it,
means that for each vehicle,
an own thread is started which calls
vehicle drive as it's proprietary threading function.
In addition to this, we now start intersection threads.
So for each intersection in the simulation,
we have our own thread.
The corresponding thread function which is
started up here is called process vehicle queue,
which is basically a processor for the queue in
which vehicles are stored that wants to enter the intersection.
The basic proceeding of the entire process vehicle queue function can be seen here.
So what you basically can see is a large loop.
If you follow my mouse while I circle here,
it's basically an infinite loop that loops over
the entire waiting queue and processed vehicles within the queue ending.
If there's no vehicle queuing at the time,
the assimilation still goes on and waits for another vehicle to arrive in the future.
So the first thing that happens once we enter this process via queue is,
we're going to check whether there are any vehicles in the queue.
Then we are going to check for a blockage in the intersection.
That means is there already another vehicle in the intersection,
or can we proceed to process the queue?
If there is another vehicle in the intersection,
we go back to the start,
and do this as long as it takes for the intersection to be cleared again.
Once the intersection is cleared,
we can block the intersection for another vehicle,
the one which is about to enter,
then we permit entry to the first vehicle in the queue.
That means the one that has been waiting the longest.
Then we remove the entering vehicle from
the queue as soon as it has cleared the intersection.
Now, what you can see here this red arrow,
this is a communication channel which basically is a message which tells us that
the permitting function to permit entry to
the first vehicle in the queue is connected to another function.
It's called intersection.
Add vehicle to queue and as you can see here, there's a Channel 2,
this function which ends here after the vehicle has been added to the waiting queue,
we are waiting until the vehicle may enter the intersection.
As soon as the permission comes,
which is indicated by the red arrow here which arrives at this blue block here,
we send back the message.
We have been granted entry to the intersection and then the message is sent to
the vehicle drive function and the vehicle will then
simply drive through the intersection until it is done.
So that's the basic mechanism here.
What I haven't mentioned until now is
a new addition to the vehicle and drive function itself,
although the white boxes are the same as before in vehicle drive.
That's the vehicle driving here,
and a new addition is this blue box here,
which basically requests the entry of the vehicle into the target intersections.
So in order for a vehicle to get into the waiting queue,
that's something we haven't discussed until now.
On the left-hand side, this processing of the vehicle queue,
assumed that the vehicle already had been added to the queue,
but we didn't discuss how it got there in the first place and this is happening here.
So once a vehicle drives along a street and
reaches the end of the street and wants to enter intersection,
it has to request entry into the intersection.
That's indicated by this blue box here and
we are starting up a thread which is the green dashed line here.
The thread function is called intersection add vehicle to queue.
Here we simply add the vehicle to waiting queue,
we leave it there and the thread is put to sleep but does nothing until
the set signal which we discussed earlier arrives from processed vehicle queue.
Now it's your turn to wake up and drive along.
Then the signal gets sent back to this block here.
Then as I said before,
the vehicle can safely enter and it's made safe by
the mechanisms used in the project that
no other vehicle at this time is already in the intersection.
Once it has crossed the intersection,
it continues as before.
It picks in a destination, crosses,
and drives off and the cycle continues until we quit the simulation.
So that's the structure of the adapted project,
and this is how it's supposed to look.
We have a new city grid here,
we have a central plaza at somewhere in Paris.
This is the octree off.
You can see all the vehicles driving towards this huge plaza,
and once they get there they have to queue and
wait until it's their turn to enter the intersection.
If you watch closely here,
the central intersection here,
there's only a single vehicle entering it at the same time.
If you look at the order in which the different vehicles arrive at the intersection,
it's exactly the order in which they are allowed to drive
off because we have a first-in-first-out principle here.
Vehicles are added and in the order in which they have been added they will be allowed
to leave the intersection after they have reached the bottom of the queue so to speak.
Now let's have a look at your task which you have to complete here.
Those are mentioned here. So in total it's three tasks.
Task L2.1, this says that in the method vehicle drive,
please start up a task using standard async which takes
a reference to the method intersection at vehicle to queue,
the object_current destination and
a shared pointer to this using the get-shared-this function.
Actually, what we have to consider here,
we are using shared pointers all over the place.
Usually, if you were using conventional,
that is raw pointers,
we could simply pass this object as a reference to the object itself.
But this is not working with shared pointer,
so we have to use the get-shared-this function.
In order to do this,
we have to make some adjustments in the header file of the appropriate function.
But you will see this in the CAT.
Then, once this is done,
you have to wait for the data to be available before proceeding to slow down.
That's task L2.1.
We will shortly look at it in the college.
For now this is only a short description here.
Let's move onto task L2.2.
This says that in the method intersection,
add vehicle to queue.
You should add the new vehicle to the waiting line by creating a promise,
a corresponding future and then add both to _waitingvehicles which is
the storage vector in which all the vehicles have to
wait when they queue to an intersection until it's their turn to enter.
Then we have to wait appropriately until the vehicle has been
granted entry as just discussed in the schematic on the slide before.
Task L2.3, says that in the method waiting vehicles,
permit entry to first in queue.
You should get the entries from the front of _promises and _vehicles.
Both are member functions in the waiting vehicles class,
which basically always store this coupling of
a pointer to a vehicle object as well as the associated promise,
which is used to send back the information about
the respective vehicle being granted entry into the intersection.
Once this is done, you fulfill the promise,
send the signal back and by this grant permission to enter to
the vehicle and we will then
proceed according to the schematic as we have seen that before.
Finally, you have to remove the front elements from both queues.
That means the vehicle that just left, of course,
has to be removed from the queues,
both from the vehicle queue as well as from the promise queue.
But specifically, this is your overview
of the tasks you should complete in this lesson project.
I wish you all the best for it.
See you soon in the next lesson.